right hello it's Marlo from wild food UK
out foraging again surprisingly enough
and we've been walking around this nice
field here looking for some mushrooms
Alfie's been helping us as you can hear
in the background and here you can see
something that we saw from quite a long
way away because this sort of stripe of
darker green grass starting there and
coming along here and in it we've got
some lovely young white mushrooms just
down here now these are too small for me
to show you anything useful from them
and there are some other bits that have
been got by the mower around here but
continuing the strike over here just
down here we've got a much larger
specimen now I'm really pleased we found
this because I've been getting a lot of
emails about this type of mushroom
recently not sure at the moment which
type of mushroom it is but I can say
pretty much for certain that it's in the
Garak family
now the Garak family is the family that
all of your button mushrooms and
portobello mushrooms and chestnut
mushrooms that you buy in the shops come
from these are the wild ancestors of
those cultivated mushrooms hey yes what
we've got here are the usual
characteristics of the agarics Amalie
we're in a field so grassland they grow
in association with grass we've got a
nice white cat and at the moment we're
just getting towards the end of May
agarics in their different forms start
to come out in the early spring and they
will go right the way through the year
there's lots of different types though
and now part of me I'm going to show you
how to a identify that you've gotten a
Garak and B although this one's a bit
maggoty help you identify whether
they're edible or not so right okay the
smell of this one is good
first of all this one's not come away
from the kaffir from the stem yet the
cat is still attached to the stem with
this veil when the cap opens and the
mushroom grows and matures the veil will
get left attached to the stem of the
mushroom and it will look like a bit of
a skirt the the prince which is a member
of this family has a very long skirt
this one which I now believe to be a
horse mushroom based on the smell has a
reasonable size skirt you can see that's
going to be left about a centimeter or
so hanging down on the stem if I cut
through it this is a young specimen
although it has been rather maggot eaten
you can see here it's a guild mushroom
got some sort of fly in there and the
gills are pink as this mushroom matures
the gills will change from pink to brown
to really dark brown almost black ish
when it's really dry and mature so those
few things tell me this isn't a Garak it
doesn't come from a sac at the base I
didn't show you that but I should really
if we look at the base of the mushroom
where I've just pulled it out the ground
there's no Vale or sac around the base
of the mushroom and that's that's
important whenever you're out mushroom
picking because mushrooms with a with a
egg sac at the base of the stem are
often in the Amanita family which
contains many of the most deadly
poisonous mushrooms in the country this
we've identified as in a Garak it's got
pinkish gills which are going to darken
it's got white flesh a white cat a white
stem with a skirt and I can't really see
it on this one but they often have
what's called a cogwheel
around the the skirt when it's still
attached and the mushroom is a bit more
open so let's let me know I've gotten a
Garak then there are a few agarics that
you really don't want there's the yellow
stainer
now if I bruise this mushroom over so
slightly it will go slightly yellow the
yellow stainer if I bruised it like
that with a knife would go bright yellow
pretty quickly so with the agaricus
Pilate honest the Pilate Armas would go
yellow er the stem towards the base of
the stem in particular
and the inky agaric which is another one
that you don't want to eat that one will
go yellow pretty quickly as well the
real thing though with those three
mushrooms which are the ones that you
really don't want to eat in the agaric
family is the smell
I had a sniff of this one earlier and
I've got a lovely almost quite strong
smell of anise E which tells me that
this is a horse mushroom spit out season
but yeah the smell is is a key give away
the the field mushrooms that you get
that look a lot like this have a small
Smithers a slight smell of aniseed
mainly sort of mushroom e there's lots
of others in the family that will smell
mushroomy through to sort of faintly of
almonds but all fairly edible fairly
pleasant the three that I mentioned that
you don't want to eat the yellow stainer
the platy honest and the inky agaric
they don't smell good the the yellow
Steiner smells a bit inky a bit sort of
chemically the the platy arnis and the
the inky agaric both smell just not very
nice chemically caustic is described as
in some book so just not edible whereas
the smell of aniseed from this mushroom
is really quite appealing the smell of
mushrooms that you get from from field
mushrooms is recognizable from the
mushrooms you get in the shops because
they're in the same family and the the
faint smell of almonds that you get from
a prince still smells very edible I
personally think that the Prince smells
a little bit of aniseed as well but they
all look pretty similar to this watch
out for yellow staining and watch out
well have a smell and make sure it
smells edible and then you can pick from
the agaric family safely if you want to
find out more go to